---
title: "Seminar series"
date: 2022-11-23
---
### Date and Time: 11-28-2022 ; 3 PM - 4 PM CST 

### Title: Exploring Energy-Efficiency in Neural Systems with Spike-based Machine Intelligence

### Speaker: Dr. Priya Panda

<a href="/docs/applied_ai_priya_panda_11_28.pdf">Download the abstract here (PDF).</a>

Meeting link: [pending]

*Dr. Panda is an assistant professor in the electrical engineering department at Yale University, USA. She received her B.E. and Master's degree from BITS, Pilani, India in 2013 and her PhD from Purdue University, USA in 2019. During her PhD, she interned in Intel Labs where she developed large scale spiking neural network algorithms for benchmarking the Loihi chip. She is the recipient of the 2019 Amazon Research Award, 2022 Google Research Scholar Award, 2022 DARPA Riser Award. Her research interests lie in Neuromorphic Computing, energy-efficient accelerators, and in-memory processing.*

***

### Date and Time: 08-29-2022 ; 3 PM - 4 PM CST 

### Title: Autonomous experiments in the age of computing, machine learning and automation: progress and challenges

### Speaker: Dr. Rama Vasudevan

<a href="/docs/Aug29_Abstract.pdf">Download the abstract here (PDF).</a>

Meeting link: [Teams](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_YjZlOGU5N2ItOTMyNi00ZWI1LTk1NGMtY2YzMDU1ZjlhZmM0%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220cfca185-25f7-49e3-8ae7-704d5326e285%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22a7cdf138-455e-41ef-b7b1-be6d67adaf95%22%7d)

*Dr. Vasudevan is the group Leader of the Data NanoAnalytics (DNA) Group at Center for Nanophase Materials Sciences, Oak Ridge National Laboratory. His research is focused on smart, autonomous synthesis and characterization tools driven by improvements in machine learning and tight integration between theory, automation and individual instruments. He has a specific sub-focus is on applications and development of scalable reinforcement learning for scanning probe microscopy, to optimize, manipulate and better characterize ferroic materials at the nanoscale, and upgrade scanning probe microscopy from a standard characterization tool to one capable of autonomous physics discovery by connecting algorithms, edge computing and theory in end-to-end automated workflows.*

***

### Date and Time: 04-25-2022 ; 3 PM - 4 PM CST 

### Title: AI Applications with Spiking Neural Networks and Neuromorphic Computing

### Speaker: Dr. Shruti R. Kulkarni

<a href="/docs/Apr25_Abstract.pdf">Download the abstract here (PDF).</a>

Meeting link: [Teams](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NDFlZDc5MjYtMTZkZS00OGQ0LTg2ZDEtOWU2YmMzM2UyNWRk%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220cfca185-25f7-49e3-8ae7-704d5326e285%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22a7cdf138-455e-41ef-b7b1-be6d67adaf95%22%7d)

*Dr. Kulkarni is a research scientist at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in the Learning Systems group. Her research spans different aspects of neuromorphic computing including algorithms, applications, simulators, and hardware codesign. She was formerly a postdoc at ORNL advised by Dr. Catherine Schuman, working on different techniques to implement learning to learn framework for neuromorphic computing. She received her PhD in 2019 from New Jersey Institute of Technology with a major in Electrical Engineering under the guidance of Dr. Bipin Rajendran. Her dissertation was on bio-inspired learning and hardware acceleration with emerging memories. She has 19 peer reviewed journal and conference publications.*

***

### Date and Time: 03-07-2022 ; 3 PM - 4 PM CST 

### Title: Understanding Trajectories: From Electron Microscopes to Atomistic Simulations

### Speaker: Dr. Ayana Ghosh

<a href="/docs/Mar7_Abstract_Bio.pdf">Download the abstract here (PDF).</a>

Meeting link: [Teams](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NmM3NGFmZjUtZDU4MS00ZGRkLTk0YjctNDE0N2YyZWVhZDc4%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220cfca185-25f7-49e3-8ae7-704d5326e285%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22a7cdf138-455e-41ef-b7b1-be6d67adaf95%22%7d)

*Dr. Ghosh's research focuses on data-driven and machine learning approaches combined with the state-of-the-art first principles methods to study complex material systems. In particular, she has interestsin developing physics-based machine learning frameworks to investigate causal mechanisms in a wide range of materials ranging from inorganic perovskites, actinides, 2D systems to organic crystals and polymers. Bridging the gap between appropriately utilizing data generated by simulations and experiments require a great deal of understanding the nuances present in both fields, which is the goal of her efforts. She received her MS, PhD in Materials Science and Engineering from the University of Connecticut in the summer of2020 and BS in Physics, Abstract Mathematics from the University of Michigan-Flint in spring of 2015.*

*** 

### Date and Time: 02-16-2022 ; 2 PM - 3 PM CST 

### Title: AI-Driven Design of High Entropy Halide Perovskite Alloys 

### Speaker: Dr. Arun Mannodi-Kanakkithodi 

<a href="/docs/Feb9_Abstract_Bio.pdf">Download the abstract here (PDF).</a>

Meeting link: [Teams](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NjMwYWEzODUtMDQ2Zi00NTk2LWE2OTktMzI2ODI1NzliNmY2%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220cfca185-25f7-49e3-8ae7-704d5326e285%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%222ee0872a-a730-4cbb-87f1-b86219272df1%22%7d)

*Dr. Kanakkithodi is an assistant professor in Materials Engineering at Purdue
University. He received his PhD in Materials Science and Engineering from the University of
Connecticut in 2017 and worked as a postdoctoral researcher at the Center for Nanoscale
Materials in Argonne National Laboratory from 2017 to 2020. His research involves using first
principles computational modeling, machine learning, and materials informatics to drive the
design of new materials for energy-relevant applications. He is a resident associate in the
Nanoscience and Technology Division at Argonne, a regular attendee, presenter, and organizer
at the Materials Research Society (MRS) spring and fall meetings, and a co-organizer of the data
science and machine learning workshop series as part of the NSF-funded nanoHUB.org.*

***




